---
id: 20250717075508106-79050
date: 2025-07-17
visibility: public
---

It's my last day here with my Nan.

I'm sad to leave. Sad to leave her. There's been something so simple and yet so deeply rewarding in being here. Helping her. Taking care of her. It doesn't take much, but I know how far it goes. I feel so sad knowing how alone she is, and how much she suffers in her own quiet moments. Alone in her thoughts, alone in her house. Sleeping in the bed where grandad would lay less than 4 years ago before he passed. It's obvious that no amount of time will ever distance her from his memory. I think she is surviving on it. Holding on to whatever she can from her past. Repeating her same routine that she's had for decades. Mumbling out loud occasionally to herself, possibly fighting back a painful memory or thought. Caught somewhere between the past and her imagination.

It pains me so much to witness this, and know there is nothing I can really do for her except be there for her. Provide her some company as a friend. Inject some new life, stories and perspectives, however small, into her world. And now that comes to an end. How sad I am that I can't offer anything more lasting. A temporary reprise from the unending torment until the certain end.

I did try though. I tried to pry back some layers, to inject some perspectives that could last, but I feel she is too scared and possibly her memory is too weak for transformation. She is in survival mode.

Then again, that isn't the total story. I do see another side too. I think beneath the fear there is a lot more life waiting to come out. It comes out sometimes when she's having a drink. Or when I'm telling her a story. Something else comes through in her. Her wonder. Her humour. Her joy. In the right setting, she is at peace.

The thought of committing to come back next year, to spend another month or so with her, brings on the tears I've been holding back. Will there even be a next year? Didn't I come here because I don't know how long we have left? Who will be with her in her actual final moments? Please god don't let her be alone. Or if she is, just take her in peace. Let her think she is with grandad. She believes in God so much, that surely has to help ease her mind at the end somehow. She believes grandad is by god's side. She told me when we were at his grave. She must believe she will be too. Bless her soul. She's an angel that has blessed us all. Just let her return with ease. That's all I hope. All we can ever hope for. Peace. Freedom. Oneness. Togetherness, in life and death. Not leaving, but returning. Returning to everything and everyone.

I will return. Whether she will be here or not. Will I even be here? Who am I anyway, to assume that I will have next year? Just yesterday I discovered a worrying mole that seems to have been growing larger. And in the time I've been writing this, how many people my age have just passed I wonder?

Time is such an illusion. We all think we have it. In reality all we have is the present moment. We don't have time. We only have this. Right now. This is it. This is all there will ever be. The moment that we don't have this, we won't even know it.

Using this reflection as a jarring reminder to live in the present. To stop worrying. To stop grasping at the future or the past. Just to be. Right here and now. Nothing more.
