---
id: 20250718082222800-96076
date: 2025-07-18
visibility: public
visibilityPotential: private
slug: 2--🗓️--calendar/📘-journals/2025/july/18.07.25---entrepreneurship,-zettlekasten,-collaboration-is-a-key
---
A business shouldn't be a purpose. It's a result of a passion that has been cleverly engineered with a feedback loop so that it can run and grow on it's own.

I think to be an entrepreneur just means to care enough about things that you do something about them.

You aren't trying to "start a business", or anything else. You're trying to solve a hard problem that bothers you so much you would rather do that than anything else.

I guess a bit like my journalling and second brain work. It's not for someone else even, I have just been so frustrated with my own need for clarity of my thoughts and ideas, that over years I have developed my reflective journaling habit and lately found this Zettlekasten method to string it all together.

Now that I'm here, I feel I'm close to some exponential returns for this effort. Meaning, that by finally being able to link my thinking and display my thoughts in the places I need them, I can access their inherent value when I need it the most.

No longer are they random thoughts in the wind, lost in time and space.

Now, they are nodes in a web. A web which I can traverse through as easily as tracing your finger across a map. Finding my way back to places I have previously explored and worked on, potentially giving me some clues for a future problem.

I have a feeling that collaboration is a key to unlocking the next stage of this. Or perhaps, a practical use case for it.

I loved so much providing my reflections on business in The Bitcoin Student. If I ever get to lead others again, I would request we do the same. Seeing into each others minds while working on the same problem.

Linking our thinking in a shared space, free to define and provide our own context to concepts, to not only share ideas, but to share perspectives.
