---
id: 20250728094842184-26261
date: 2025-07-28
visibility: public
visibilityPotential: private
slug: 2--🗓️--calendar/📘-journals/2025/july/28.07.25---work-and-play
---
Thinking about how when I play a video game, it is designed to challenge me and provide tests of will and increased ability to succeed.

Thinking about how much I enjoy playing games, how happy they make me, to progress in ability and reaching further points in the game. How sad I often am when the video game ends because I have completed every level. How happy I am to find a new game to repeat this process.

Thinking about how fun it is to work on meaningful and engaging tasks. I remember as a kid me and my friends would make pretend bases and family structures. All working together in make-believe towards a shared vision. Adults would describe us as "playing together". How then is play different from work? These days work often describes monotonous and restrictive tasks. Turning us into mindless machines that perform the same task again and again. But as kids, when we play-worked, we were always in constant motion. One task would lead to another. Communicating out loud what we've achieved and now what we will work on next. Occasionally giving each other instructions for tasks we had imagined that the other person could not understand. That's how I wish to work and play as an adult too. I see no reason to change this attitude. It made us happy as children, so I see no reason why it can't continue that way as adults.




