---
id: 20250708193416645-95741
date: 2025-07-08
visibility: public
slug: 2--🗓️--calendar/✉️-newsletters/2.-self-mastery
---
---
## Self-Mastery

---

**All suffering is a result of disconnection.**

Transforming my life meant facing my toughest challenge to date: making the immensely painful decision to end my loving relationship of 8 years, move out of my apartment (and the city I had come to love), quitting my well paid job, and start building *everything* from scratch.

This was a total death and rebirth process, which I was determined to not only get through, but to *own*, taking responsibility for bringing myself closer to who I really am and the life I wanted. The only problem was I didn't actually know how to do that, or what exactly it was that I was after.

Luckily for me though, the universe handed me some answers. Through the medium of my mother in the form of a book, gifted to me during my toughest days and attached with a loving message of encouragement. The book I received was called: I Met A Monk, by Rose Elliot.

What I found inside that book was honestly nothing less than *profound*. A set of tools, principles and perspectives, which would come together to form a *noble path*, that I could follow to help me rebuild my entire life and uncover what had always been waiting for me.

Before we go deeper, I want to prepare you for a paradox at the heart of all transformation; something crucial that I struggled with for many years:

**The path to reconnecting with your *true self*, begins by letting go of who you think you are.**

Wherever you are in life right now, whatever you feel you are up against, I want you to know that there is *always* a path that leads you out of suffering. A path for freedom. Freedom with all that *is*, *was* and ever *will be*. 

Here is the path that works for me:

---
## Liberation from Suffering and the Framework for Self-Mastery

---

I didn't have the answers at the time, but part of me understood that whatever lay inside the book my mother had given me would show me how I could overcome my challenges. After all, I had already become somewhat familiar with the idea:

>**Buddhism teaches us that the mind *must be trained*.**

Not with belief or dogma, but through practice. 

And so with my book in hand, I flew out to Egypt to be with a close friend, Josiah, where I could begin again. I wasn't just restarting my life externally, I was preparing to train my mind to invite change from the inside out.

## **Focus *demands* the *strength* of attention**

One of the first practices that the book introduces is called **Śamatha meditation**. 

A technique I had become somewhat familiar with already from using the *Waking Up* meditation app by Sam Harris - an app I still use and recommend to this day.

*Śamatha* meditation is taught in Buddhism to train the mind to be able to stay focused on a single point of awareness, helping you build your strength of *attention*.

> **Awareness is the natural result of stabilizing attention.**

Rather than going deep into _why_ this practice works, I want to invite you to try it for yourself, and discover through your own experience whether this method strengthens your focus and clarity.

To help make this easier, and to inspire a challenge, I've created a *gamified levelling system* that maps out some distinct stages that I encountered on my own journey.

[Gamified Meditation Guide](/1--🌐--Atlas/Dots/Things/Gamified-Meditation-Guide)

I’d be lying if I said I didn’t struggle _immensely_ in the beginning. It quickly became painfully clear just how untrained and unequipped my mind was for sustaining deep focus and attention.

>*"With practice, you will find you can connect with your deepest experience of meditation in an instant."* - Sam Harris

I can honestly say that I have found the above statement to be completely *true*.

As my practice deepened, I found myself slipping into focused states more easily and more often. It became a vital support system for my daily efforts to *notice*, and eventually *interrupt*, the habitual reactivity of my mind.

What I didn’t expect though was that it would reveal something deeper, the truth of just how empty all thoughts really are. No matter how strongly I believed in them at first, the moment I could observe them without being caught *inside* them, their grip on me **dissolved**.

## The *noble* path

>*But if all thoughts are inherently empty, how can I attempt to build any kind of life from them?*

The book introduces the *noble path*, also known as the **Eightfold path**. Maybe you've seen the image of the Dharma wheel before? The wheel with eight spokes?

This one of the foundational frameworks that Buddhism has to offer:

>The *noble path* is broken into **eight categories**, focusing you on the aspects in life that will deepen your connection with yourself, others and how you view the world.

I opened this article with the statement: **All suffering is a result of disconnection.** Here's what I meant by that, from a Buddhist perspective:

**Suffering can occur from:**

- Disconnection from **Reality** (Anicca / Impermanence)
- Disconnection from **Self** (Anattā / Non-self)
- Disconnection from **Presence** (Mindfulness / Awareness)
- Disconnection from **Others** (Compassion / Interbeing)

To help us avoid the above, here is the [Eightfold Path](/1--🌐--Atlas/Dots/Concepts/Eightfold-Path) that the Buddha passed down to his disciples some ~2,500 years ago.

---

*The saying: "Sudden realisation, gradual cultivation" sums up this part of the journey for me.*

*Realising these tools and paths existed happened quickly, but practicing them will always be a daily effort that I hope to continue to gift my future self forever.*

 \- Seb

---