---
id: 20250804112132502-74029
date: 2025-08-04
visibility: public
slug: 2--🗓️--calendar/✉️-newsletters/3.-expanding-perspectives-(draft)
---
<font color="#ffc000">This document is a work in progress.</font>

---
### Title Ideas:

# Expanding Perspectives

---

**Are we blinded by our own perspectives?**

When I realised that something in my life was not right, and not knowing what to do or how to figure it out, I made the uncomfortable decision to... *take myself to therapy.*

At the time, I thought this was a submission of the fact that I had messed up. I had made the common but wrong assumption, that I was to *blame* and that I should even feel *ashamed* for being in this situation in the first place.

What actually transpired within that small office in Birmingham city centre, was the construction of an entirely new *perspective*.

A new perspective which would bring about greater *understanding*, *compassion* and ultimately, **agency**.

Ever since that first experience, I have been *addicted* to trying on new **perspectives**, **frameworks** and **models** that I can use to invite *positive change* and *growth* in my life.

Just like trying on different pairs of glasses, each one has their own tint and focus range. They may or may not suit me personally and could be more or less effective in different situations.

This journey has led me to try a variety of different *professional* and *scientifically* proven therapeutic methods, like *Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT)*, *Psychodynamic Therapy* and *Internal Family System (IFS)*.

I've also engaged in a number of *self-help*, *coaching*, *somatic*, *esoteric* and even seemingly *bizarre* methods - like *Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP)*, *affirmations*, *dream interpretation*, *sound healing* and *Tarot card readings*.

If you've ever wondered if *therapy*, or other *healing and perspective shifting methods*, could help you, then this article is a reflection of some of my own experiences and their impact on me so far.

---

### Is This *Science* Or *Woo Woo*? <font color="#ffc000">(Perhaps move this section, or change)</font>

It's easy to make the assumption that if something isn’t backed or recommended by Western science, then it must be *nonsense*.

This assumption though, like all of us, is blinded by it's own perception. As documented in multiple research papers, [like this one](https://www.cambridge.org/core/elements/psychologys-weird-problems/C324108A678435B4F18EF712EFB793BB), we see that:

>"Psychology as currently constituted is a fundamentally WEIRD enterprise."

>"It is overly reliant on participants from **W**estern, **E**ducated, **I**ndustrialized, **R**ich, and **D**emocratic societies."

>"Psychology is WEIRD...also in terms of its theoretical commitments, methodological assumptions, and institutional structures."

As someone who travels around the world and engages with various cultures, religions and traditions, my personal view on effective therapeutic methods can be summed up by the following quote, paired with a *Buddhist* perspective: 

>*"The whole is greater than the sum of its parts" - Aristotle*

Buddhist perspective:

>*Take what works for you, and leave the rest.*

With the above in mind, here are some personal accounts and descriptions of the various therapeutic methods I have engaged with so far, and the extent at which I feel they have supported or progressed my development.

---

## Internal Family System

### Who's talking?

Before I knew that this method was called [Internal Family System (IFS)](https://ifs-institute.com/) , I knew it as "parts work". 

That's because, from the IFS perspective:

>Our mind is a *system* of *sub-personalities*, or "parts", that are all inherently connected to a core **Self**.

Looking from this perspective, we learn that each sub-personality within our psyche can have their own *feelings*, *beliefs* and *roles*, that can even be in *conflict* with one another.

*Have you ever felt conflicted with **yourself**?*

When left unmanaged, these sub-personalities can fight for control, interrupting each other constantly and preventing the other from ever being fully heard and understood.

That's where the **Self** can help.

The Self exists within all of us, at the centre of this system. It is *balanced* and knows how to guide each part, and can be characterized by the **8 C's**:

- Calmness
- Curiosity
- Clarity
- Compassion
- Confidence
- Courage
- Creativity
- Connectedness

By learning and practicing the IFS method, we can develop a *deeper understanding* of each of our  wounded parts and learn to live from our Self.

Allowing us to recognise when a part is out of alignment, and to gently guide it through self-leadership, towards greater *harmony* and *cooperation* within the whole system.
#### So.. What? Why does this matter? 

For me, it fundamentally changed how I can *see* and *speak* to myself, when dealing with challenging and difficult emotions and inner conflicts.

When my inner critic won't stop judging me, or my ambitious dreamer is lifting my feet completely off the ground... I no longer need to *fight* with myself.

I can recognise that this is not the Self speaking. It is a wounded *sub-personality* that's been *triggered*.

A part of *me* that, just like a child who's scared to go to their first day of school, needs a guardian to lead and inspire them with the 8 C's.

*Calmness. Curiosity. Clarity. Compassion. Confidence. Courage. Creativity. Connectedness.*

That's all I *ever* seem to need. 

Guidance from this kind, wise and strong version of me that seems to understand what I truly need and how to get there.

That's the Self that I am reconnecting with whenever I practice this therapeutic method, and to my own surprise, through other therapeutic methods too, like during Samathá meditation, as I have reflected on here:

[31.07.25 - Samathá Part 2, Finding my way back to the Self through meditation](/2--🗓️--Calendar/📘-Journals/2025/July/31.07.25---Samathá-Part-2,-Finding-my-way-back-to-the-Self-through-meditation)

#### Now what?

Because of what I might describe as my "main" *sensemaking* practice of Reflective Journaling, I tend to connect with my IFS practice the most through dialog, or conversational writing.

Below is an example of real dialogs I have had with different parts of myself in the past. It tends to be a conversation I engage with from the Self, which allows the separate part to speak their truth and then the Self replies with a grounded, unemotional tone - just as if these are two separate people have a conversation together.

<font color="#ffc000">**Add example IFS journal**</font>

Now that you've seen how this practice works a bit, feel free to give it a try whenever you feel a "part" of you is acting out of alignment.

---

Previous: [2. Self-Mastery](/2--🗓️--Calendar/✉️-Newsletters/2.-Self-Mastery)



