---
id: 20250618150032521-94532
visibility: public
slug: 2--🗓️--calendar/📘-journals/2025/june/2.06.25---porto-to-vigo
---

Journey about to start. Bolt on its way. Feeling that I'm about to throw myself into the unknown. Into the hands of the universe. At the edge of my comfort zone, with possibility of reaching overwhelm. Trying to remain stoic. Believing that ultimately nothing terrible will happen, possibly just discomfort and constant problem solving. Choosing excitement over fear. Choosing adventure over safety. Also because I don't know what other choice I have to get to France with Stig without paying more than a grand to fly.. No idea where or how I'll buy food or even go to the toilet with him. Usually I put him in the van while I do those things. Not worrying. Having blind faith that I will figure it out at the moment that I need to. 

!public - Porto to Vitor, leaving Vitor Photo.jpg

___

#### Bolt to the train station

11:45am
€8

The Bolt arrives and the driver immediately points at Stig, gesturing and speaking in Portuguese. I don't understand, but I assume he is asking me if he will sit in my lap. I reply enthusiastically and reassure him I will hold him.

First and easiest leg of the journey went smoothly. Reminding myself that this is the easiest part, the real challenges will come at the train stations.

Chest and belly full of adrenaline, joy and butterflies. My adventurer's spirit is fully lit up by this unknown and challenging journey.

___

#### Porto Campanha train station to Valenca Do Minho

12:10pm
€15

Waiting in the busy queue, people all around. Realising Stig is drawing attention to myself as people all around giggle, wave and speak to him.

I reach the front desk to buy a ticket to Vigo and the man asks me, "You are travelling with your dog?".

I reply "Yes." With a smile and a reassuring nod. He tells me he will need to check if it's allowed. Then follows up with "Are you happy to leave tonight at 7pm?"

No. I'm not happy to wait 7 hours.

I tell the man I found a route to Vigo from here passing through Valenca. I show him my phone and he informs me part of the journey is by coach. I hadn't realised that, getting Stig on a coach could be a bit too much. I tell the man I can maybe get a bolt/Uber for this section because of Stig, thankfully it's only around 40 minutes.

The man nods and starts printing me a ticket for Valenca. He didn't check with anyone about Stig. He just gestured that I need to buy 2 tickets. I'm sure he's aware my dog is too big. The limit is a 10KG dog, Stig is over 17kg. It's quite easy to see he's too big. I also don't have a pet carrier or muzzle for him, which I saw are the official rules. The guy seemed to help me anyway. He decided not to check with whoever he was supposed to check with. I take the ticket and realise just how much I'm loving this. Riding the edge of the unknown. At any moment I could be stopped, needing to come up with another plan. Thinking on the spot. What a rush. 

No part of me believes I can't get to France. I just don't know how. But already, the path is unfolding before me. I really trust everything will be perfect. Even if it is not easy or comfortable. It will be exactly what I need.

Life always seems to give me exactly what I need. Every obstacle is here to teach and guide me. Remembering a quote that was said with Joe, something like "Obstacles aren't IN the way, they ARE the way". I so believe that.

!public - Stig in Vitor Station Photo.jpg

___

Feeling pissed off the train is broken down or whatever is going on. Already 45 mins behind time which means I could miss the connection. Knowing there's nothing I can do about it, which is making it worse because I can't even find another way to Vigo to catch my connection to Madrid. I'm just stuck, in the heat, on the track. 

Reminding myself that everything is perfect. Wherever I end up today/tonight is exactly how it's meant to be. I just wish it wasn't so hot. The heat is making this wait almost unbearable. No Aircon? Seriously????

Meditating to detach myself from these feelings. Finding some peace.

...

1 hour delay already and we've stopped on the tracks again. The obstacles are showing me the way. Meditation. Stoicism. Things I can fully drop into and practice right now. It's the perfect moment to practice. Everyone in the carriage looks so hot and uncomfortable. Still shocked that this is happening and there's no way out. We're trapped in an oven.

...

Carriage breakdown and abandoned. We all get squeezed into the carriage behind. No seat, standing and sitting at the door way. Much better.

Going to the train toilet with Stig for a pee worked well.

!public - Stig in the carriage, Vitor Photo.jpg

___
€32

Uber to Vigo. Forgetting Spain is 1 hour behind Portugal. Missing the connection by about 10 minutes. Also my phone data no longer works here.

___

7pm

Finding out I can't use the train or the bus with Stig anywhere in Spain. Not knowing any other solution than hitchhiking. Seeing the people sleeping on the floor of the bus station and feeling relieved that at least I have that option for tonight.

Deciding that I should just go and eat some food, drink a beer and chill while I figure out my options. A tactical move as I could feel myself feeling low and starting to lose faith. Thinking I might have made a mistake.

Finding a nearby Indian restaurant and already feeling great just at the thought of a curry and a beer. 😆 

!public - Stig in Vitor having a curry Photo.jpg

___

8pm

Being recommended to try Blabla car and realising that it might show different results now that I'm in Spain. I had already tried Blabla from Portugal, but it was only showing company mini buses that don't take dogs so I dismissed it.

Finding that it has multiple car ride shares to Madrid tomorrow. Messaging every one, and getting a ride confirmed for mid-day. Wow.

It feels like I'm cheating. I managed to book a ride for only €34 with Stig! What a bargain!

Can't believe I wanted to pay around €100 to travel by train with Stig. My heart sinking when I found out I couldn't.

Thinking to myself, "Right, here's where the real journey begins." Mentally preparing myself to start hitchhiking.

Now that I'm in Spain though, I guess it's totally different. Lots of people driving blabla cars for cheap that take dogs. I guess it could be smooth sailing all the way to France now I've figured that out. 🤞🏻

___

Laying on the hotel bed with Stig in Vigo now. 5th hotel lucky, accepts dogs for an extra €10.
No cheap Airbnbs or hostels taking dogs that I could find. €70 for a night. More than happy to pay that after realising what I'll save using blabla now.

Really happy with how today went. Stig was so good.

Feeling like I might have unlocked pet travelling. Blabla feels like travelling on easy mode 😀


!public - Me and Stig in Hotel Vitor Photo.jpg

---

Next: 03.06.25 - Vigo to Madrid