---
id: 20250802101005891-15261
date: 2025-08-02
visibility: public
slug: 2--🗓️--calendar/📘-journals/2025/august/02.08.25---samathá-part-4,-using-labels
---
Previous: [01.08.25 - Samathá Part 3, Gathering Attention, Using Attention](/2--🗓️--Calendar/📘-Journals/2025/August/01.08.25---Samathá-Part-3,-Gathering-Attention,-Using-Attention)

---

~20 minutes Samathá, 10 minutes Stick spinning

___

Today felt like I took a step forwards and backwards at the same time.

Using the metacognitive note "distraction" to label the more persuasive thoughts, and day dreams that came to me, helped significantly in cutting off their hold on me.

Without actually making the mental note of labelling these distraction, I can notice them as thoughts, but I can't necessarily stop them altogether. It ends up being a progressive siphoning of my attention away from the thought of daydream, during which at any point my attention can be recaptured and the process starts again.

But using the label "distraction", actually saying that word out loud in my head the moment I become aware of it, acts as a kind of final judge and jury that immediately snaps my attention out and away from the thought. Allowing that thought to quickly fade away into nothingness where I couldn't even recall it necessarily after a short period of time.

Another help was going through the motion of "gathering" my attention after labelling the distraction. At first I had to remind myself to gather up the attention, not just to simply detach from the distraction and then leave my attention free floating in space. But to consciously gather together and aim it back onto the breath.

After a short while this processes collapsed into one.

By simply calling a "distraction", I found myself instinctively collecting up the newly detached attention back onto my chosen focus point.

Another realisation, or possibly re-remembering, I had today, was not to "look" at the imagined point of origin of my breath through my eyes/minds eye. But rather to embody it in the location in consciousness where it is being felt.

It's the difference between trying to shine a spotlight on something you want to look out, Vs opening the flood lights in all directions and simply being present at the point the thing you are observing is felt.

"Becoming the breath". Perhaps. Not, "watching" the breath.

Once I became the breath, I could see it more clearly as I had yesterday. Feeling it all around me.

I also practiced skilfully moving the ball of focus between my breath and my hands.

Again, realising not to try to "look" at my hands from my minds eye, but to embody them. To feel them from within my hands, or wherever my consciousness of them emanated.

Now I felt a kind of energy. I was aware of a almost buzzing or humming sensation which outlined my hands. The more I could embody them and become them, the more detail I could feel of them. The muscles, temperature differences, positional visualisations, pressure. Not as clearly as I saw the breath yesterday though. It was phasing in and out.

My attention was occasionally jumping back onto the breath or somewhere in my minds eye before I would make an effort to continuously place it back within my hands again. Each time losing detail and awareness, but the longer I could hold it there the more I could see.

When I decided it was time to try placing this ball of focus on my stick spinning, I realised I wasn't quite prepared. I had to go inside the house and retrieve my shoes. Getting interrupted halfway by my mother who alerted me about something to do with Stig.

I know true mindfulness doesn't need to break because of distraction, that's the whole point of this training. But I guess I wasn't able to hold this ball of focus together during this process because by the time I came back outside with my stick I felt I had noticeably lost focus.

I got to work anyway, spinning it around, more slowly to begin with. I found I was able to capture moments of clear attention on the stick and my hands, but it was always phasing in and out.

I dropped my stick many times, even clumsily at lower speeds, becoming frustrated that I couldn't seem to even maintain a more regular speed.

Something was tripping me up. Like being short circuited. I was using too much force or effort to try to focus my mind, but each time it phased away I unskilfully bounced my attention around, unable to recreate a steady rhythm.

I guess today was good though, because I feel I learnt more strategies to improve this practice.

Regardless of the failure to apply my focus to my stick spinning, I feel determined to continue this daily practice. 

Feeling sure that this is still the right path to pursue for reconnecting with the version of me that I feel most at peace in. The Self.